Hello again in this video are going to be creating some key frame animation to make our trophy bounce
flash let's jump and get started.
OK.
We're going to do is find our trophy and it's called Trophy heart.
In my assets in here it's going to drag for a fee cut into the sprite's folder from here right click
create folder which I will call trophy.
And then dreg if you cut into the double click on the photo look at trophy count you can see is just
a regular old image we need to cut that up.
So click on the Sprite mode from single to multiple and then apply.
From here we can click on the Sprite editor and have a look at it.
If we get a slice I think we can just click automatic and slice and it should be fine because as you
can see there is a gap between the two where we have this transparency.
Then it will know what to do if you like yeah you know what I want to change it so I don't actually
have that.
They're all based sticky thing in there.
Then you can change it so this Sprite won't include that you can crop little bits out.
You can change the positioning of your glove to grab the blue handles here.
You can change exactly where this Sprite will be.
So let's do that let's do it all the way down to the end of this and have the trophy although the artwork
we received had a little kind of stem to it.
Let's have it with no state and see how that goes.
If I click on the bottom line you can see here are my two sprites that I've created.
Then click on a plie.
And then close out of that window.
Nice.
Next up we need to give ourselves a game.
Objects are right click create empty.
Call this trophy or is that the transformers we do.
And then if I double click on that it is way down in the bottom left which is the zero zero point now
because there's two parts.
There's the top part and the bottom part.
I'm going to have those as separate elements underneath my trophy separate children under the trophy
game object.
So first of all grab trophy.
Cut to zero on the top of trophy.
It will create that and it will add that as a child and also create a sprite renderer so that we can
see but we can't see it.
Why is that.
Well the order in layer will make this five the same as I've got my attackers that are coming in.
I get calls so we've got our image there now dragon trophy Cat 1 which is the base and I'll rename both
of these two.
Just top I think is good enough.
And then base it's all about the base.
There we go.
Now zoom in a little bit scroll.
In my base is not there because it has its bright red ribbon is still set to 0 put that to five okay
they're on top of each other.
It's in a good spot.
I'll grab the top and then with my movement key.
Just move it up there.
So I've made a little bit of a hodgepodge of these.
Right right right right right right.
In you can see there's that little bit of an edge there from where I cut off the Sprite.
I'll leave it for now if you want to.
You could go into an end in there and you could tidy that'll actually delete that little bit.
But what we're doing at the moment I think if we're scroll here on the screen I'm probably not going
to see it.
I just want to have that little base thing there I want it to look like this star was independent but
still part of the tree.
OK.
So we've got the top.
We've got the base.
Next up we need to do some animation to make our animation work.
I'm going to create an animator controller for the trophy.
So clicking on the trophy actually not done in a cog on the trophy yet go into animations folder right
clicking here create an AM shown control.
Great we'll call this trophy.
Now we could go on our trophy click add component add animator as the component but we can also do it
the one step slightly quicker way which is to grab our trophy animated controller dragon over a trophy.
There we go.
It knows if you want a drag animator controller.
Well I guess I need to have an animator with which to put it on.
And it's already a trophy as an animator controller.
The next thing I'll do before animating is check the size so grab trophy to it.
Removing this whole unit over to here.
Parent and children next to the lizard it looks a little bit small.
So mini challenge for you micro challenge is to change the size of the trophy.
So it's a little bit bigger and a hint you'll need to have a look at pixels per unit.
Okay so let's do that together.
Now if I find my sprite's fine trophy and then the trophy cut I will change from pixels per unit to
will say 70 and then click on apply.
Okay what makes it bigger.
They're not quite in the right position but that's okay.
You know what I'm going to make it even a little bit bigger again so I'll make it.
I make it 60 and then click on apply.
Okay there we go back to the top and then move it relative to the base a little bit higher.
OK.
Good stuff.
Now what do we want to do next.
Well we want to add some animation.
Let's have a think about what we want to do.
You can just play around with it you can grab it and move it.
You can say what if we were to rotate it.
How would that look.
That actually looks pretty cool.
I think I might do a rotation in my little prototype before us doing some some translation up and down
but I'm kind of digging this.
The rotation part.
Well you know what we've got one problem as we rotate our lighting.
This is something to pay attention to here because this is a Sprite and it's been created in a hand
drawn.
We've got our lighting up in the top right because the sun's coming from the top.
If I can rotate this now well it's not the background Rick rotate the actual thing.
If I rotate it you see the light goes to the bottom and to the top.
So I think that's not going to work to rotate that that's going to look a little bit dumb.
So back to my original idea of having it bounce case how do we do that.
Well let's click on trophy.
We're an animator control a call and then click on create to create a new animation clip.
Where do we want to save this.
Well we'll save it into assets animations and more call this Rufa bounce.
As an animation now we have a blink in the animation.
Excellent.
And click on the top.
Get it to my kind of neutral default position it's all looking pretty good.
Now we're going to create ourselves some key frame animation.
So just add some key frames.
So grab the top of your trophy click on our samples to change at 24 make sure in the same as we've got
for the lizard.
I think that's good.
And then now we'll make it do some bounce start in the bottom position click on the record button from
your animation window.
We are now recording so whatever we do is going to add a key frame when we move something in our scene.
So let me give you an example.
I'm going to move my slider a little bit just to calibrate you we've got 24 frames so in one second
there'll be 24 frames in four frames eight frames to all from 16 up to 24 frames.
So if I want to have something that lasts about up Martin I know a fifth or a quarter of it.
Then I'll move my slider along the top of my animation to approximately that looks like it's about six
frames and then if I move my trophy up as soon as I move it you see that this diamond has been added
that's a key frame has been added and moved up to the now move my slider on long little bit further
up to 12 and I'll drop it back to where it was back to there.
Move my slider up to let's see up to 18 and pull this up a little bit but not quite as far and then
move it all the way down to 24 which is the end.
And move it back to wherever the original position was.
So I've been doing it just eyeballing it but you can get exact by moving this Slider again or let us
see what we've done see how it moves boying denying denying So it interpolates.
It calculates if I need to be here at 0 and they're at 6 then I'm going to go a step in-between on each
frame.
Supercool and super easy.
So if I get out of animation most out of record mode by clicking the button click on the play symbol
or space bar boying dunboyne we've got some animation.
Cool.
Not super amazing just yet but not too shabby.
Now it's finesse it a little bit.
You can highlight the dots highlight the key frames and then just drag to move them and that will speed
up the amount of time it takes to get from that first point to the second point boingo doing.
Doing that will is pretty cool as well.
I think what we can also do is expand this Selecta here and we can see what's going on in the x y and
z.
Now is just about to tell you before that we've starting here you can see if I click on one of these
key frames will click on the key frame for the y position because that's the thing that we're doing
most of our animation up and down on.
You can see the position at the start is point 4 8.
If I scroll long and say well I want this one to be exactly the same as that then I can click on this
particular key frame.
So on the y position at my time and I can say I want this to be point four eight point four three not
quite exactly right so make a point for 8 and you can see it's gone red to show that we have made a
change there.
What I could have done as well is moused over or scroll my at my time to a particular point here.
Clicked on record again moved it within the scene.
A little bit less high.
Okay quick golf record and then that has changed it as well as a couple of ways.
Make sure if you change if you're in record mode record mode and you want to change a key frame make
sure your position exactly on top of that key frame.
You might need to scroll in a bit to be sure because if you're slightly off and then you say OK I want
to move it a little bit blank it makes a whole new bunch of key frames on that point and then try to
go from where ever that key frame is to wherever that key frame is.
So just undo that right making good progress.
Yes on the also want to show you is curve so right now on the bottom the animation window you see.
Boop sheet next.
That you see curves.
So show us what is happening in terms of the curve over time.
You might be zoom way way out as I am hold down Shift and if you've got a really slow mouse wheel as
I too for some reason my tail will be describing and then scrolls rolls across scrolls gold just to
get this scale on the sides so zoomed in a bunch.
Show us a quick where it is.
But my mouse was a bit cranky.
And then if you click your middle button on your mouse will bite and you can move around to get a different
view from it.
Up and down the there is scrolling.
Now I can click on this key frame and then just move it to any new position move it left to right so
the height of my bounce I could have it after one frame or I could have it after seven frames.
I can have it down lower so not bounce quite so high.
Remember I've clicked on the y position.
Just give us a on the exposition and move.
Well we don't we haven't created any key phrase to that yet but I could move that around you know.
There should be some key friends I told a lie.
Here they are down here.
We just haven't moved it is what we have not done so it's all going to sit on pretty much the zero.
You can see it's all there but if I was to click on this why it's moved to there and then say make the
Y a bigger value then move it to the right.
Or I can move it to the left just undo that.
I don't want to be moving it left and right at the moment just up and down.
So back to the why end.
Sometimes that will be painful finding where your curve has got to arcane It zoomed in a bunch because
it zoomed in was looking at the X..
Right now what you want to have a good animation has some good pacing to it.
Were not going to go deep into that.
I think that's a good thing for you to do some extra study on how to make something look good with bounce
and sizzle and stuff.
Having it uniform generally doesn't look as good as having a little bit of pacing to it so maybe it's
like slow the arm and then pull it back down fast.
So if we do that move our first one a little bit and then have it dropped down quickly.
That's yeah.
And then play about.
Now you can see it kind of looks like it's smashing into the ground like manufacturing something a little
bit more.
If we do it that way OK.
So you can play around with your curves to get slightly different values slightly different looks to
your animation.
So this brings me to the challenge that I have for you.
Let's jump over to the challenged grain so that made the base of the trophies.
So see how we've been just animating the top.
Aren't you great now and make the base just to do something subtle also a little bit of scale or a little
bit of rotation of the bass to give it some movement so is your challenge champion.
Take that on.
Play around with it and do something.
It looks pretty nifty and of course please share a little video if you can take a video of it in the
community we'd love to see what you come up with.
But I'll see you back in a moment and I'll show you what I'm doing with my base of my trophy.
Okay so I think I'm just going to do a little bit of wobble.
I think just a little bit of rotation left or right so clicking on my trophy you can see he is my animation
currently just animating the top.
So this is the.
One of the children we've got.
If I now click on my bass it's all about the bass.
If I make a joke another five times before this lecture is over.
Now if I click on record I'm going to go back to the dope sheet.
I find this a little bit easier for this point.
Move my slider back to the start of the animation cycle and.
What do I want to have Apnea We'll just a of left right rotate based upon when the objects.
Slams back down so we'll start.
Left and in the middle have it rotated so quickly.
My eat all rotate a bit to the right and then as it slams back down.
At that point I'll have it be centred again so zero on my rotation.
And then when it goes the other way I have a go to the left.
It sounds like a nifty idea left.
And then when we come back when it's lines back down or have it back to zero.
One of the things you want to make sure you do is have your looping look good so if your first key frame
looks quite different to your laskey frame then when you loop it or get to the end and then it'll snap
in a really weird way from this last frame of the first frame.
So it's a good habit to have your first frame exactly the same as the last frame.
So we've got here a little bit of wobble from side to side not super happy with that at those that looks
a little bit creepy between you and I.
Let's have a look at our curves might just smooth it out a little bit.
But scroll back in on this we're using these zayd rotation and I will just make it a little bit more
subtle I think.
So I think it's good.
OK.
So there we go it's not necessarily a work of art but it's not too bad.
OK here's a little bit of a bonus I want to try something else just to show you that we can do more
things.
Is click on top get it to the point where it's right at the peak of its first jump up to about there.
Yeah.
Or there on our key frame because it's at the top.
Click on record.
Now I can change the colour.
And this is just the colour tinting over the top so it's not going to be an amazing effect but let's
see if we can make it even more yellow.
Is that much of a difference.
It's only a tiny difference tiny tiny difference where we make it a little bit darker.
Okay.
And then.
It is now added for Sprite render a colour.
It's added a key.
Frank rogo one key friend to the left.
Then I want to make that white.
And then if I go one key frame to the right one make that white as well.
Otherwise it's going to Berlin from yellow key from here all the way back down to the White down there.
So I want to have more of a blink.
So the key frames either side make it white.
So then as we click out of recording mode come on goes blink gives the red colour in there maybe is
a little bit too subtle so I'm going to drag my key frame one to the right one to the left so my blink
will last a little bit longer.
Link line OK and make sure if you're doing any more fiddles in here click on record change the colour.
I think we can do better than yellow.
Let's go Orange should done orange or long Schneider super bright that makes a big difference.
My eyesight it's not the best.
Look it's we're doing a little bit of hackie art here.
But just to show that we know how to use the tools out of record mode click play blank again just yellow
sorry an orange as it comes up to the top.
OK.
So we've animated the transform we've animated the rotation you can estimate scale if you wanted and
we've animated the colour.
So there's a whole bunch of key frame animation.
Great work all can.
Awesome I'll see you in the next lecture.